In the last lecture we started improving our caching set up by assigning version numbers and hence making
sure that we don't interfere with existing caches while still changing our service worker file to cater
for updates.
Now I need to clean up the old cache too though, because otherwise not only do we crowd our cache storage
because we add more and more caches, equally bad we also fetch outdated versions as you see in our application.
So let's fix that by adding some cleanup code,
where do you clean up the old cache then?
The first inclination might be to do that in the install step too, right after cache addAll, but keep
in mind, why do we use a different version number?
Because we didn't want to mess with the old cache because it's still getting used, for the same reason
we certainly shouldn't clean up the old cache here because that might break our application.
A better place to do cleanup work is in the activate event because this will only be executed once the
user closed all pages,
all tabs and open the application in a new one.
So now it's safe to update the cache because now we're not in a running application anymore.
So here I want to do my cleanup work and I will use
event wait until here to again wait until we're done with the clean up before we continue because again,
we're doing some work on the cache
and if we don't wait for this to finish, we might react to a fetch event and serve that from the old
cache which we're about to tear down,
so probably not what we want. In there,
I'll now use the caches object again, referring to the general cache storage
and then here I want to use keys. Now you learned about this and keys gives you back the keys of all the
sub-caches in your cache storage,
so as in our case if we have three caches here, static, dynamic and static-v2, we would get back
an array with static, dynamic and static-v2,
so just a couple of strings, the names of our caches,
this is what this gives us back.
It gives us back this information as a promise, so I will chain then and in that function, we now have
the finished key list which again because it's important, is just an array of strings with the names
of our caches, three
in our case right now but could be more of course.
I then want to return promise all here,
we haven't learned about this method yet. Promise
all takes an array of promises and waits for all of them to finish, so that we only return from this
function once we're really done with the cleanup.
Now we don't have an array of promises yet though, we have an array of keys, of cache names.
Well we can convert this into promises,
so let's take the key list and yes let's use map.
Map is a default Javascript array operator which allows us to transform an array,
so we want to transform this array of strings into an array of promises.
Map takes a function which will be executed on each array element,
so each element in the key list array which again is just a string, I'll name it key here,
you can give this argument any name you want,
it will be populated automatically because this function is executed automatically. In there,
I now want to check if the key, if that is not equal to my updated cache name, static-v2, if it's
not equal to that, I want to delete it.
The same is true for my dynamic cache because I want to keep that too, it's still named dynamic,
so I'll also check if it's not equal,
so if key is not equal to dynamic. If it's neither equal to our static cache, the current nor
to the current dynamic one, I want to get rid of it because then it's the old one.
So here, I
will first of all console log service worker and then removing old cache and I'll pass the key so that
we can see which cache was removed.
This won't remove it though of course, it's just an info log, instead here I will return caches
delete the key.
Now delete is another method we can use on the cache storage and as it sounds, it deletes a cache with
a given name,
so this is a string,
this is the key we identified as outdated and caches delete returns a promise which makes sure that
since we use map here, we replaced the string we had in key list with the fitting promise
and by the way, if this is not met, so if we have static-v2 or dynamic, it returns null,
so it will simply replace the given string in key list with nothing.
So in the end, we will have an array of promises, promises from the caches delete method and we'll wait
for all these operations to finish before we then return and therefore know that we're done with the
cleanup work.
So with that, let's save this, let's go back to our application then and let's reload this,
we did some work in the service worker, so now we need to activate this. Before I do that,
let's click on console, we see installation is finished and now we'll cleanly do this by closing the old tab
and opening a new one. In that new tab,
let me open the console and you see installing pre-caching activating and there we have removing
old cache static, which makes sense because we have a static-v2 version. And in application on our cache storage,
you indeed don't see the old cache anymore and therefore, we use the new cache with the new feed.js file
with the black colored text again because that is when I changed this to.
Now if I change this to white,
all I have to do is go back to the service worker and bump that version up here and down here and we
will optimize this soon so that we don't have to change it in multiple places but with these changes
in place,
now if I save this, close the tab and reopen it, you will see that as soon as I,
well do this one more time because of course now it just got installed,
so now it got activated,
now we have the white text here.
So this is now how we can manage the versions and clean up old caches.
Of course it's a bit cumbersome to edit this name all over the file, so let's optimize this in the next
lecture.